---
Title: SWS101 Unit 1
categories: [SWS101, Unit1]
tags: [SWS101]
---

### Topic: Introduction to cybersecurity
---

The first unit of this module was about Networking which included types of networks, IP addresses(public and private), network layer, subnetting  and Endpoints of linux and windows.

The network types that were included included were Wide Area Network(WAN), Local Area Network(LAN), Wireless Local Area Network(WLAN) and Virtual Private Network(VPN). While learning about this I learnt that Proxy is not a VPN but its something that sit in between the middle of a connection and acts as a mediator.

The OSI and TCP/IP models explains how the networking actually works. The TCP/IP model have four layers explaining how the network works while the OSI model actually have 7 layers explaining how the network works.

Even though there are many things that are crucial in networking, I think that the most important one is the IP addresses. The acronym for IP is Internet protocol. The IP addresses are given unique to each device that is connected to a network, be it public or private. The IP has IPv4 and Ipv6. The IPv4 contains 32-bit binary number combined into 4 bytes consisting of 8-bit groups which can start from 0 and go upto 255. These numbers are separated by dots to make it easier to read. The IPv4 address gives out about about 4.3 billion unique addresses. In this lesson, we were taught about how to calculate subnet and all which was really confusing for me and its still not clear to me. The IPv6 was actually created to overcome the shortage of the IP addresses as the number of IP addreses given by the IPv4 was quite limited. IPv6 addresses are 128 bits long and contains both alphabets and numbers.

A virtual private network(VPN) is allows a safe and encrypted connection between a private network and a remote device.

### TOPIC: linux endpoint
---
A Linux endpoint refers to a device running on the Linux operating system that serves as an endpoint within a network. This endpoint can be a desktop computer, laptop, server, or any other device that interacts with the network. Linux endpoints are favored for their robustness, security, and flexibility. With Linux's open-source nature, administrators have granular control over configurations, ensuring heightened security measures and efficient resource management.

### TOPIC: Windows endpoint
---

A Windows endpoint refers to a device operating on the Windows operating system that functions as an endpoint within a network. These endpoints can contains a diverse range of devices such as desktop computers, laptops, tablets, or servers, all running various versions of the Windows OS. 

### TOPIC: Windows Files System
---
There are five types of Windows file systems: FAT12, FAT16, FAT32, NTFS, and exFAT. FAT12 and FAT16 are obsolete in modern Windows operating systems. FAT32, commonly used in USB memory sticks and SD cards, allows for broad device and operating system compatibility but has a file size limit of 4GB and lacks built-in data protection and encryption features. NTFS, the default Windows file system since Windows NT 3.1, offers improved performance, security, and support for large partitions, with features like granular permissions, journaling, and system consistency restoration after failures. However, NTFS , might not be supported by mobile and older media devices.

### Topic: OverTheWire Bandit 0 - 20
boJ9jbbUNNfktd78OOpsqOltutMc3MY1 lvl1  cat readme 
CV1DtqXWVFXTvM2F0k09SHz0YwRINYA9 lvl2  cat ./-    
UmHadQclWmgdLOKQ3YNgjWxGoRMb5luK lvl3  cat ‘spaces in this filename’ 
pIwrPrtPN36QITSp3EQaw936yaFoFgAB lvl4  cat .hidden 
koReBOKuIDDepwhWk7jZC0RTdopnAYKh lvl5  cat ./-file07 
DXjZPULLxYr17uwoI01bNLQbtFemEgo7 lvl6  cat ./maybehere07/.file2 
HKBPTKQnIay4Fw76bEy8PVxKEDQRKTzs lvl7  cat /var/lib/dpkg/info/bandit7.password 
cvX2JJa4CFALtqS87jk27qwqGhBM9plV lvl8  cat data.txt | grep millionth 
UsvVyFSfZZWbi6wgC7dAFyFuR6jQQUhR lvl9  cat data.txt | sort | uniq -u 
truKLdjsbJ5g7yyJ2X2R0o3a5HQJFuLk lvl10 strings data.txt | grep =  
IFukwKGsFW8MOq3IRFqrxE1hxTNEbUPR lvl11 cat data.txt | base64 –d 
5Te8Y4drgCRfCx8ugdwuEX8KFC6k2EUu lvl12 cat data.txt | tr a-zA-Z n-za-mN-ZA-M 
8ZjyCRiBWFYkneahHwxCv3wb2a1ORpYL lvl13 
NO                               lvl14
BfMYroe26WYalil77FoDi9qh59eK5xNr lvl15 cat /etc/bandit_pass/bandit14 telnet localhost 30000
cluFn7wTiGryunymYOu4RcffSxQluehd lvl16 openssl s_client -connect localhost:30001 -ign_eof
not required                     lvl17 nmap -A localhost -p 31000-32000
kfBf3eYk5BPBRzwjqutbbfE887SVc5Yd lvl18 diff passwords.old passwords.new
IueksS7Ubh8G3DCwVzrTd8rAVOwq3M5x lvl19 cat readme
GbKksEFF4yrVs6il55v6gwY5aVje5f0j lvl20 ./bandit20-do cat /etc/bandit_pass/bandit20