---
Title: SWS101 Unit 2
categories: [SWS101, Unit2]
tags: [SWS101]
---

### Topic: Penetration Testing
---

Since Unit 2 was based on practical, we were made to complete the challenges in Hack The Box. We have to begin by connecting to a VPN and to do that we have use "sudo openvpn file.ovpn" in the terminal. After connecting to the VPN, we have for start the machine for each of the challenge.

### Topic: Meow
---
We were asked about the tools that were used in the penetration testing and answers were quite simple. Then I had to scan the IP address given when starting the machine using nmap and I found out that 1 port is up which is telnet. Then I connected to the telnet by using "telnet ip_address_address_of_the_machine" in the terminal and I had to login as admin/administrator/root as their default password is administrator or no password at times. Next, when I use "ls" command, I found flag.txt which will give me the flag to complete the challenge by using "cat flag.txt"

### Topic: Fawn
---
In this challenge, I had to use the FTP (file transfer protocol) and FTP is very insecure because it conveys information in clear text. It has two secure version which are known as SFTP (FTP over SSH) and FTPS (FTP over SSL). I began by using nmap to scan the IP address of the machine and FTP port is open and the service was running from was UNIX. I can use anonymous as the username when I want to log in without having an account in the FTP and I'll get 230 as response code if the login is successful. Since ftp does not support "cat", we have to download the flag.txt file by using "get" and then exit the server. Then we have to use "cat" to read the flag.txt file and then challenge is completed.

### Topic: Dancing
---
SMB operates at port 445 and stands for server message block and I find out that there were 4 shares. I can access the IPC$ and Workshares without the password but I could not find anything in the IPC$ share so I had login into Workshares. Then I can found Amy.J and James.P and I "get" worknotes from Amy.J and flag.txt from James.P. Then I exited and then "cat" to read worknotes.txt and flag.txt and then the challenge is cleared.

### Topic: Redeemer
---
I began by doing nmap and found out that 6379 TCP port is open and the service that is running that on the port is redis and the version of the redis server being used is 5.0.7. Redis is a in-memory dtabase and its very fast and data might be lost if the server is restarted. I ahev to use redis command -h to specify the hostname. Once I am conected to the redis server, I typed info to check the details about the database and "select" is used to select the desired database. To obtain the flag, I used get flag and the challenge was completed.

### Topic: Appointment
---
SQL injection is one of the most common type of SQL vulnerabilities. A03-2021-injection is the OWASP top 10 classification for this for vulnerability. The port 80/tcop was the only port open and the service running on that port was http version Apache httpd 2.4.38. In the login page, I wrote admin as the username followed by ('#), I successfully logged in and then I got my flag.

### Topic:  Sequel
---
During the scan, I found out that the port serving MySQL was 3306 and the version of MySQL running on the target was mariadb. I logged into the mariadb by using "mysql -u root -h ip_address" and the username that allowed me to get intot he database without any password was root. There were 4 database in the MySQL but the only one standingout from the rest of the databse was the htb database. After changing the directory to the config table, I found out the flag to complete this challenge.

### Topic: Crocodile
---
After doing nmap of the IP address, the version of the service running on port 21 was vsFTPd 3.0.3 and the version of http service running was Apache httpd 2.4.41. After getting into the ftp server as anonymous user, I "get" the files allowed.userlist and allowed.userlist.passwd. and after reading the file allowed.userlist using "cat", the highest privilege was given to admin. After using gobuster, I found out that the I can use /login to a webserver and since the highest privilege user was admin, I "cat" allowed.userlist.passwd, I got the password and after logginf in username as admin and its password, I got the flag.

### Topic: Responder
---
After using "http://ip_address", I was redirtected to page called unika and the webpages were made using php. I turned on the responder and after manually redirecting myself to the "somefile", I get responded with hash which will help me later. I saved the hash by using nano hash and used john the ripper using rockyou wordlists whichh gave me the password. Knowing the username and the password I used got into the Windows computer and after changing the directory multiple times, I finally found out the flag.

### Topic: Three
---
During the scan, I found outn that 2 ports open. Then I downloaded SecList which the perfect tool for discovering any kind of sub-domain which is needed for this challenge. I used the wordlist and then I found out some sub-domain.  
